README.md, before:

# Jest TSD

The easiest way to test your TypeScript types with Jest.

- Zero-config
- Works with your current Jest setup
- Write your regular tests in either JavaScript or TypeScript
- Jest outputs descriptive, helpful error messages when tests fail

## Install

```bash
# Install with npm
npm i -D jest-tsd @tsd/typescript

# Or install with yarn
yarn add --dev jest-tsd @tsd/typescript
```

> Note: `@tsd/typescript` will be used to compile your type tests. If you have compiling issues, adjust its version to match the version of `typescript` you have installed.

## Setup

Type tests are written in a separate `.test-d.ts` file from the rest of your tests, and then run from within your test file by calling `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()`.

1. Create a type definition test file `.test-d.ts` in the same directory with the same name as your Jest test file

   - e.g. If your Jest test is located at `src/dir/foo.test.js`, create a `src/dir/foo.test-d.ts` file
   - In your type definition test you can import the [assertion functions](#assertions) from `jest-tsd`

     ```ts
     import {
       expectType,
       expectError,
       expectNotType,
       expectAssignable,
       expectNotAssignable,
       expectDeprecated,
       expectNotDeprecated,
     } from 'jest-tsd'

     // test: Array.from() can be called with a variety of types
     Array.from('foo')
     Array.from(new Set())
     Array.from([1, 2, 3])
     Array.from({length: 3}, (_, i) => i)

     // test: Adding two numbers should produce a number
     expectType<number>(1 + 1)
     expectType<number>(2 + 2)

     // test: A plain object should not have a filter function
     expectError({}.filter((x: any) => x))

     // test: Partial should make all keys optional
     expectAssignable<Partial<{a: string; b: string}>>({})
     ```

     > 💡 Pro tip: Even though you can't use the `test()` and `it()` functions in `.test-d.ts` file (that file gets compiled, not actually executed), you can still label your test cases so that any test error messages are easy to read and point you to the right spot.
     >
     > Just add a single line comment that begins with `// test:` or `// it:` above one or more test cases and that text will be included with the error message if any of those assertions fail.

1. Call `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()` in your Jest test file

   ```js
   import {expectTypeTestsToPassAsync} from 'jest-tsd'

   it('should not produce static type errors', async () => {
     await expectTypeTestsToPassAsync(__filename)
   })
   ```

   > If for some reason your `.test-d.ts` type definition test file is not co-located to your Jest test file, you can pass the definition test file's absolute path to `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()` (instead of `__filename`).

## Assertions

These assertions are re-exported from tsd-lite:

### expectType&lt;T&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is identical to type `T`.

### expectError&lt;T = any&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that `expression` throws an error.

### expectNotType&lt;T&gt;(expression: any)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is not identical to type `T`.

### expectAssignable&lt;T&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is assignable to type `T`.

### expectNotAssignable&lt;T&gt;(expression: any)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is not assignable to type `T`.

### expectDeprecated(expression: any)

Asserts that `expression` is marked as [`@deprecated`](https://jsdoc.app/tags-deprecated.html).

### expectNotDeprecated(expression: any)

Asserts that `expression` is not marked as [`@deprecated`](https://jsdoc.app/tags-deprecated.html).

Commit message:

feat: Allow for standard test() & it() in type def tests
Rather than looking for a single line comment with "// test:", just
change the regexes up a bit to allow people to use the test('
description, () => {}) syntax that they're already familiar with.

Because the .test-d.ts file is compiled and not run, it makes no
difference if the tests (whether they be expectX() calls or just
a line of typescript that should not throw an error) is inside
of some arbitrary function (i.e. test()) or at the root of the
file.

README.md, after:

# Jest TSD

The easiest way to test your TypeScript types with Jest.

- Zero-config
- Works with your current Jest setup
- Write your regular tests in either JavaScript or TypeScript
- Jest outputs descriptive, helpful error messages when tests fail

## Install

```bash
# Install with npm
npm i -D jest-tsd @tsd/typescript

# Or install with yarn
yarn add --dev jest-tsd @tsd/typescript
```

> Note: `@tsd/typescript` will be used to compile your type tests. If you have compiling issues, adjust its version to match the version of `typescript` you have installed.

## Setup

Type tests are written in a separate `.test-d.ts` file from the rest of your tests, and then run from within your test file by calling `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()`.

1. Create a type definition test file `.test-d.ts` in the same directory with the same name as your Jest test file

   - e.g. If your Jest test is located at `src/dir/foo.test.js`, create a `src/dir/foo.test-d.ts` file
   - In your type definition test you can import the [assertion functions](#assertions) from `jest-tsd`

     ```ts
     // src/dir/foo.test-d.ts

     import {
       expectType,
       expectError,
       expectNotType,
       expectAssignable,
       expectNotAssignable,
       expectDeprecated,
       expectNotDeprecated,
     } from 'jest-tsd'

     test('Array.from() can be called with a variety of types', () => {
       Array.from('foo')
       Array.from(new Set())
       Array.from([1, 2, 3])
       Array.from({length: 3}, (_, i) => i)
     })

     test('Adding two numbers should produce a number', () => {
       expectType<number>(1 + 1)
       expectType<number>(2 + 2)
     })

     test('A plain object should not have a filter function', () => {
       expectError({}.filter((x: any) => x))
     })

     test('Partial<T> should make all keys optional', () => {
       expectAssignable<Partial<{a: string; b: string}>>({})
     })
     ```

1. Call `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()` in your Jest test file

   ```js
   // src/dir/foo.test.[jt]s

   import {expectTypeTestsToPassAsync} from 'jest-tsd'

   it('should not produce static type errors', async () => {
     await expectTypeTestsToPassAsync(__filename)
   })
   ```

   > If for some reason your `.test-d.ts` type definition test file is not co-located to your Jest test file, you can pass the definition test file's absolute path to `expectTypeTestsToPassAsync()` (instead of `__filename`).

## Assertions

These assertions are re-exported from tsd-lite:

### expectType&lt;T&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is identical to type `T`.

### expectError&lt;T = any&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that `expression` throws an error.

### expectNotType&lt;T&gt;(expression: any)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is not identical to type `T`.

### expectAssignable&lt;T&gt;(expression: T)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is assignable to type `T`.

### expectNotAssignable&lt;T&gt;(expression: any)

Asserts that the type of `expression` is not assignable to type `T`.

### expectDeprecated(expression: any)

Asserts that `expression` is marked as [`@deprecated`](https://jsdoc.app/tags-deprecated.html).

### expectNotDeprecated(expression: any)

Asserts that `expression` is not marked as [`@deprecated`](https://jsdoc.app/tags-deprecated.html).
